♪♪
The Hubble Space Telescope has given us
an incredible image for its 30th birthday.
This image reveals a beautiful nursery
for new stars
in a nearby satellite galaxy
to our own Milky Way.
The bright, newly-formed stars
in the middle of this image
are at least ten times more
massive than our Sun.
Powerful radiation from these stars
is causing the surrounding gas
to glow in stunning colors.
The blue indicates oxygen gas
heated to nearly 20,000
degrees Fahrenheit.
The red indicates the presence
of nitrogen and hydrogen.
Those massive stars are also
driving powerful winds
of charged particles
which are sculpting out
the bubble and ridge structures
we can see across the nebula.
The blue nebula at the lower left
of the image is actually
material ejected from a single
huge star in the center,
that star is 200,000 times
brighter than our Sun.
The whole region shows how
dynamic our universe is
with stars continuing to form
and affect their surroundings.
And it's Hubble's exquisite vision
from its orbit above Earth's atmosphere
that gives us the ability to
get a clear glimpse
of this kind of incredible
beauty and activity.
The Hubble Space Telescope has
changed the way we think of space
and our place in
the universe.
Hubble has refined our understanding
of the age of the universe
and its rate of expansion.
And through its deep fields it has
peered across billions of light-years
to reveal ancient,
adolescent galaxies
we can compare with
our own Milky Way.
It has shown us the
telltale effects
of mysterious dark energy
and dark matter.
And it has given us a front row
seat to these beautiful
interstellar clouds, and nebulas,
where new stars
and their surrounding disks
of dust and planets
continue to form.
Hubble is in excellent
technical health
and is expected to continue
its exploration of the universe
for quite a few years
to come.
Multiple astronaut missions
to service
the Hubble Space Telescope
over the years
have kept Hubble at the
forefront of capability.
With each servicing mission,
astronauts repaired,
or replaced instrumentation,
keeping Hubble better
than ever before.
The final servicing mission in 2009
was extremely successful
so that even today, Hubble is
more scientifically powerful
and productive than
ever before.
You can find out more about
the Hubble Space Telescope
at the website: nasa.gov/hubble
and on social media @NASAHubble.
♪♪